docs/getting-started.md, before:

# Getting Started

## Requirements

- Node.js 20+
- npm 10+
- Linux desktop with GUI (for local app run)

## Install Dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

## Run In Development

```bash
npm start
```

If your Linux environment needs it:

```bash
npm run start:linux
```

## Build Packages

Linux AppImage:

```bash
npm run build:appimage
```

Linux DEB:

```bash
npm run build:deb
```

Linux RPM:

```bash
npm run build:rpm
```

Note: `rpmbuild` is required for local RPM builds. On Debian/Ubuntu:

```bash
sudo apt-get install rpm
```

All Linux variants:

```bash
npm run build:linux
```

Windows setup EXE:

```bash
npm run build:win:setup
```

Windows portable EXE:

```bash
npm run build:win:portable
```

Both Windows variants:

```bash
npm run build:win
```

Artifacts are generated in `dist/`.

## First App Setup

1. Create a new profile.
2. Set product directory to your aircraft folder.
3. Enter your account login/email and license key.
4. Pick a channel (`release`, `beta`, or `alpha`).
5. Keep `Snapshot number (since)` at your last installed snapshot (or `0` if unknown).
6. Click `Check Updates`.
7. Review plan, then click `Install`.

Commit message:

feat: iniBuilds provider integration (v2.0.0)
Add full iniBuilds provider support alongside the existing X-Updater provider.

## Core
- New `lib/inibuilds-client.js`: Shopify GraphQL auth → iniBuilds device registration → product catalog → file download with checksum validation
- Activation key extraction from `product.orders[].OrderProduct.drm_key`
- Activation key persistence in profile storage (`inibuildsActivationKey`)
- Provider selection architecture with conditional form fields

## UI
- iniBuilds product dropdown and read-only activation key display
- Provider-aware form toggling (X-Updater vs iniBuilds fields)
- Updated i18n labels in `en.json` and `de.json`

## Docs
- `docs/inibuilds-renderer-api-analysis.md`: full iniManager renderer bundle analysis (endpoints, auth flow, IPC channels, settings)
- Updated: user-guide, update-engine, data-and-security, getting-started, troubleshooting, README
- Removed obsolete discovery worksheet docs
- All documentation in English

## Version
- Bumped to 2.0.0

docs/getting-started.md, after:

# Getting Started

## Requirements

- Node.js 20+
- npm 10+
- Linux desktop with GUI (for local app run)

## Install Dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

## Run In Development

```bash
npm start
```

If your Linux environment needs it:

```bash
npm run start:linux
```

## Build Packages

Linux AppImage:

```bash
npm run build:appimage
```

Linux DEB:

```bash
npm run build:deb
```

Linux RPM:

```bash
npm run build:rpm
```

Note: `rpmbuild` is required for local RPM builds. On Debian/Ubuntu:

```bash
sudo apt-get install rpm
```

All Linux variants:

```bash
npm run build:linux
```

Windows setup EXE:

```bash
npm run build:win:setup
```

Windows portable EXE:

```bash
npm run build:win:portable
```

Both Windows variants:

```bash
npm run build:win
```

Artifacts are generated in `dist/`.

## First App Setup

1. Create a new profile and choose the update provider (`X-Updater` or `iniBuilds`).
2. Set product directory to your aircraft folder.
3. For X-Updater: enter login/email and license key. For iniBuilds: enter login/email and password.
4. Pick a channel (`release`, `beta`, or `alpha`).
5. For X-Updater: keep `Snapshot number (since)` at your last installed snapshot (or `0` if unknown).
6. Click `Check Updates`.
7. For iniBuilds: select your product from the dropdown after check completes.
8. Review plan, then click `Install`.
